chore: adding kafka brokers metrics (#196)
open-telemetry/semantic-conventions: docs/messaging/kafka.md

| messaging.kafka.leader.elections             | Counter       | Int64      | elections | `{election}` | Leader election rate (increasing values indicates broker failures). | | |
| messaging.kafka.leader.unclean-elections     | Counter       | Int64      | elections | `{election}` | Unclean leader election rate (increasing values indicates broker failures). | | |

> | messaging.kafka.brokers                      | UpDownCounter | Int64      | brokers   | `{broker}`   | Number of brokers in the cluster. | | |

Reviewer: This metric now should be removed/deprecated

Author: Done, I moved to a new section called `### Broker Metrics` and I removed the old metric as well.

| messaging.kafka.brokers.count                | UpDownCounter | Int64      | brokers   | `{broker}`   | sum of brokers in the cluster | | |
| messaging.kafka.brokers.consumer.fetch.rate  | Gauge         | Double     | fetches per second | `{fetch}/s`  | Average consumer fetch Rate. | `state` | `in`, `out` |

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.network.io           | Gauge         | Double     | bytes per second   | `{By/s}`     | Average tncoming Byte Rate in bytes/second. | | |

Reviewer: This should be `Counter`
```suggestion
| messaging.kafka.brokers.network.io           | Counter         | Int64     | bytes   | `By`     |  The bytes received or sent by the broker. | | |
```
`messaging.kafka.network.io` then should be removed or deprecated

| messaging.kafka.consumer.lag_sum              | Gauge         | Int64      | lag sum | `{lag sum}` | Current approximate sum of consumer group lag across all partitions of topic | `group` | The ID (string) of a consumer group |
|                                               |               |            |         |             |                                                                              | `topic` | The ID (integer) of a topic |

### Broker Metrics

**Description:** Kafka Broker level metrics.

> | Name                                         | Instrument    | Value type | Unit   | Unit ([UCUM](/docs/general/metrics.md#instrument-units)) | Description    | Attribute Key | Attribute Values |

Reviewer 2: I don't see any attributes - are there none? We should have at least standard [`service.*` ones](https://github.com/open-telemetry/semantic-conventions/blob/main/docs/resource/README.md#service)

Reviewer 3: I would suggest using the broker's id (which I would call "node id" instead of "broker id" following Kafka best practice).

| ---------------------------------------------| ------------- | ---------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------- | -------------- | ------------- | ---------------- |

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.count                | UpDownCounter | Int64      | brokers   | `{broker}`   | sum of brokers in the cluster | | |

Reviewer 2: Is this metric necessary?

assuming brokers report unique instance id (e.g. standard `service.instance.id` attribute), it can be derived from other metrics in this list. If brokers also report standard metrics (CPU, memory, etc), this can also be derived from them.

Author: That might be true, this is primarily here to replace the `kafka.brokers` metric which already exists. So doing away with this completely might impact metrics that are being collected now, although I do see the point that it could be derived if we added the attribute.

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.consumer.fetch.rate  | Gauge         | Double     | fetches per second | `{fetch}/s`  | Average consumer fetch Rate. | `state` | `in`, `out` |

Reviewer 2: If brokers can report `messaging.kafka.brokers.consumer.fetch.count`, it can provide more information and the rate can be derived from it - can it be changed?

Reviewer 3: Indeed. I thought that it was preferred not to have rate metrics but instead use a counter from which the rate can be derived for whatever time period is desired.

Author: Hmm, yeah I think that is correct. This should be updated.

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.network.io           | Counter       | Int64      | bytes   | `By`     |  The bytes received or sent by the broker. | | |

Reviewer 3: Wouldn't we want to measure bytes sent and bytes received separately?

Author: That was the original thought, but it was changed. I think changing it back makes sense, the PR I have for the kafka collector is separated.

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.requests.latency     | Gauge         | Double     | ms        | `{ms}` | Average Request latency in ms. | | |

Reviewer 2: is it possible to report it as a histogram? Then we'll have percentiles and `messaging.kafka.brokers.requests.rate` can also be derived from it?

Author: Hmm, I don't have any experience converting histograms from metrics.go into histograms for OTeL. Are there other examples where someone has done this in the past? The kafka consumers for example is already tracking `lag` as a `gauge` metric, so I thought the same would make sense here.

I could see it potentially being an upgrade, I'm just not sure how to apply it to update the collector.

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.requests.rate        | Gauge         | Double     | requests per second | `{request}/s`| Average request rate per second. | | |

Reviewer 2: same here, `messaging.kafka.brokers.request.count` is more flexible and the rate can be derived from it.

Author: agreed.

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.requsts.size         | Gauge         | Double     | bytes     | `By`         | Average request size in bytes. | | |

Reviewer 2: this would probably be best represented with histogram to allow distribution and then a rate counter is not needed.
Another possibility would be to only report `messaging.kafka.brokers.network.io` with direction attribute or use  `messaging.kafka.brokers.request.bytes` counter counting all the bytes .

Author: Hi @lmolkova , is there an example of a histogram metric available and how that would be defined?

Reviewer 2: you can find examples throughout this repo, for example, take a look at `http.client.request.duration`. there is a lot of information in the [spec repo](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/metrics) and also take a look at metric docs on [opentelemetry.io](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/metrics/data-model/#histogram)

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.responses.rate       | Gauge         | Double     | responses per second| `{response}/s`| Average response rate per second. | | |

Reviewer 2: same comment as on request rate

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.response_size        | Gauge         | Double     | bytes     | `By`         | Average response size in bytes. | | |

Reviewer 2: same comment as on request size

> | messaging.kafka.brokers.requests.in.flight   | Gauge         | Int64      | requests  | `{request}`  | Requests in flight. | | |

Reviewer 2: maybe `messaging.kafka.brokers.active_requests` to stay consistent with HTTP semantic conventions.
